fsociety is the name of a hacker group based in Coney Island, New York, led by the mysterious Mr. Robot. Its name is a play on both the derelict amusement park building in which it has its headquarters, and their message: "f**k society."
The group is highly secretive, electing to meet and communicate in person, rather than through digital means which may be traceable. fsociety is responsible for the massive distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack that took E Corp offline before Elliot stopped them. After the attack ended, Elliot found a file left on one of the E Corp servers by fsociety. Rather than delete the file, Elliot changed the access permissions on the file to allow only himself access to it. Later, he was approached by Mr. Robot on the subway, and taken to Coney Island to see the group's headquarters.
Known Members
The Hackers
Mr. Robot: The group's leader, who is determined to draw Elliot into fsociety's activities. Mr. Robot is determined to bring down the world corporate structure, adopting a disguise much like the Monopoly Man when filming his video manifestos. He serves as a somewhat paternal figure to Elliot at times, refusing to leave him when he goes through withdrawal, and pushing Elliot beyond his normal boundaries.
Darlene: An expert coder with few boundaries and little fear. She has little respect for others' privacy, including Elliot's, and generally says what she thinks. She has been involved with Cisco, a hacker associated with rival hacker group the Dark Army.
Leslie Romero (formerly): The oldest of the group, who began as a phone phreaker. He is very experienced and world-wise. He helps Mr. Robot detox Elliot, and later walks away from the group for a time. Romero is murdered by a stray bullet from a neighborhood shooting a month after the 5/9 hack.
Sunil "Mobley" Markesh (formerly): A young male hacker who works at the Bank of E. He becomes Darlene's closest advisor following the 5/9 hack, but soon becomes suspicious of both Darlene and Elliot after Romero's murder. Sometime after July 5, Mobley has moved west, and is working at an electronics store as "Frederick." He lives with Trenton and his friend.
Shama "Trenton" Biswas (formerly): A young, quiet female hacker. Trenton was born to Iranian immigrant parents, and wears a hijab. She is a college student who questions her parents' values as assimilated Americans. Sometime after July 5, Trenton moved moved west with Mobley, no longer wears hijab, and is working at an electronics store as "Tanya." She lives with Mobley and his friend.
Associates
Cisco (Michael Drayer): Darlene's off-and-on boyfriend, who is associated with the Dark Army. He brings the Dark Army into fsociety's plan to bring down E Corp by hacking Steel Mountain, only to tell Darlene they have bailed out. He is able to speak Mandarin Chinese.
Dark Army: A mercenary hacker group associated with China. The Dark Army is the antithesis of fsociety, available to hack for hire, regardless of who they work for or what their cause is. Their leader is known as Whiterose.
A number of militants have joined after 5/9. These people, including Vincent Campbell, Ad Mitchell, Kevin Kerwick, and Kara Kirkland, were involved in stealing the balls from the Wall Street Bull statue and dropping it throught the roof the Capitol while Congress was voting on the E Corp bailout in July. The perpetrators are involved in a car chase with the police returning to NYC and crash. Three are captured while the aforementioned Vincent Campbell escapes to the smart house base, albeit gravely injured.
The FBI believe there to be members overseas.
Mr. Robot's Videos and the Mask
Mr. Robot has created a series of short videos which present fsociety's manifesto, as well as warning their enemies about their upcoming actions. The character wears a plastic mask, a top hat, tuxedo, and wields a cane. His voice is heavily distorted. The man is portrayed by Mr. Robot in the first season and Darlene in the second season. The videos are filmed on VHS and uploaded using Vimeo.
Origins of the Mask
Elliot and Darlene first adopt the mask after Darlene finds one in a ten-cent store in Chinatown on Halloween 2014. It is taken from an obscure horror movie from the 80s that the Aldersons love called The Careful Massacre of the Bourgeoisie. In the film, obnoxious, rich kids are brutally murdered by a man wearing the mask.
The mask resembles the Monopoly Man from the Parker Brothers game. The Monopoly man, whose real name is Rich Uncle (later Milton) Pennybags, first appeared in the 1936 version of the game. He was drawn to resemble the ultra-rich property owners of the early 20th century, who would buy and sell property in New York City. This activity formed the basis of the game Monopoly, in which players buy and sell streets, utilities, railroads and buildings on a game board using the names of Atlantic City streets. Mr. Robot's use of the costume serves as a form of mocking, ridiculing the modern equivalents of people it is designed to resemble.
Mr. Robot's mask also resembles the British Guy Fawkes mask. The mask has a long history, dating back to the Gunpowder Plot, an attempt to blow up the British House of Lords in 1605. The plotters were lead by Robert Catesby, but the masks took the name of Guy Fawkes, who has in charge of the explosives. The masks first appeared in the early 1800s, when children begging for money on the Bonfire Night, the anniversary of the plot, began wearing the masks, effigies of Guy Fawkes, and asking for, "pennies for the guy." Over time, commercial versions of the masks became available, with the contemporary mask designed by illustrator David Lloyd. As Bonfire Night's popularity was supplanted by the American holiday Halloween, the mask became a symbol of protest after it figured prominently in the graphic novel "V for Vendetta", notably being used during the recent Occupy Movement.
Fandom may earn an affiliate commission on sales made from links on this page.
The Guy Fawkes mask became a model for Mr. Robot because it is worn by supporters of by the loosely organized activist group, Anonymous, which purses similar objectives and uses similar means to those of fsociety. Anonymous supporters regularly protest the actions of governments, corporations, and individuals that they consider to be unjust (or against 'the 99%') by taking vigilante action, usually by carrying out cyber attacks. They also post warning videos online wearing Guy Fawkes masks in a similar manner to the fsociety videos. Anonymous supporters may also wear the Guy Fawkes mask when they participate pin the Million Mask March in cities around the world on Guy Fawkes Day (November 5).
History
October 31, 2014: Elliot first dons the mask and comes up with the idea for fsociety when Darlene pays him a visit.
November 27, 2014: Mobley and Trenton are working with Darlene, meeting at a Ron's Coffee shop. They have yet to meet Elliot.
December 2014: Mobley secures the abandoned Fun Society arcade as base from Romero, recruiting him in the process.
February 7, 2015: fsociety hacks E Corp and infects a server.
March 2, 2015: fsociety frames Terry Colby for the hack, leading to his arrest by the FBI.
March 31, 2015: fsociety infiltrates Steel Mountain and plants the Raspberry Pi.
May 9, 2015: The 5/9 attack. Tyrell Wellick is with Elliot when it is initiated.
May 12, 2015: fsociety burn their equipment and throw a party at the arcade. Elliot is arrested. Within 24 hours, he sentenced to 18 months prison on charges of hacking Krista's boyfriend and stealing his dog.
June 11, 2015: fsociety run Susan Jacobs out of her home and set up base. Their numbers have expanded to include about a dozen foot soldiers. They steal the balls from the Wall Street Bull.
June 2015: Scott Knowles is forced to burn 5.9 million dollars in public. Romero is murdered.
July 4, 2015: Darlene kills Susan Jacobs. Mobley is questioned by the FBI.
July 5, 2015: Darlene and Cisco cremate the body. Mobley and Trenton go missing.
July 7, 2015: A group of foot soldiers drop the Wall Street bull's balls through the roof during a Congressional meeting.
August 7, 2015: Elliot is released early from prison. He meets with Xun, Cisco's Dark Army contact, to find out what "Stage 2" is.
August 8, 2015: The foot soldiers returning from D.C. are chased by the police and crash. One member, Vincent, escapes with internal bleeding. Cisco finds him at the smart house and brings him to the ER with Darlene. At a diner, a gunman opens fire on Darlene and Cisco through a window; Darlene survives, but Cisco does not. Elliot decrypts a coded message at his apartment and finds a telephone number, which leads to an address, where sits a taxi, where he meets Tyrell. Kicked out of a taxi on their way to an address Tyrell gave, they begin walking and talking about Stage 2. At a warehouse where a Dark Army member is seen, Tyrell reveals that he has been working on malware that can create a devasting explosion. Their target is a nearby building that is housing the growing collection of paper banking records of E Corp. When Elliot tries to delete the malware, Tyrell shoots him in the stomach. Later that night, Tyrell calls Angela to tell her what happened. Angela leaves her apartment so that she will be the first person he sees when he wakes up.
Elliot Alderson is a cybersecurity engineer and vigilante hacker who lives in New York City.
Although not much is known about his childhood, Elliot describes his relationship with his father to be a very positive one. He tells Mr. Robot that his father was the only one he could talk to. His father died of leukemia which he developed after working at E-Corp, leaving him in the care of his mother. Elliot's father tried to keep the cancer a secret, but when he was very ill by the time Elliot was eight, he told his father's secret to his mother, resulting into his father flying into a rage, pushing him out of the bedroom window and breaking his arm. This affected Elliot's otherwise positive opinion of his father, however, Darlene informs him that this did not happen - in fact, he fell out of the window due to his own breakdown with a baseball bat. He did not have a good relationship with his mother, who was somewhat abusive towards Elliot as a child both physically and mentally. She seemed to have a negative relationship with Elliot's father, acting indifferent after his death. Darlene is Elliot's younger sister, although he does not always remember that she is
Before Elliot worked as an engineer at Allsafe Cybersecurity, he previously worked as a white-hat hacker for a cyber company, looking for holes in the system until it was "hacker-proof". On Memorial Day weekend when everybody else wanted to leave to party, Elliot continued to hack the company and they couldn't lock down the servers. They locked Elliot in the server room for the night. When Elliot woke up after falling asleep after a few hours, he found all the servers in the room had been destroyed, but he had no memory of it, suggesting this was a 'black out' where another personality had taken over. He was subsequently taken to court and the judge made him go to therapy with Krista Gordon for anger management. It was childhood friend Angela Moss who encouraged him to take the job at Allsafe.
Elliot gets the job at Allsafe. He has proven himself to be knowledgeable and proficient, and has gained the trust of his superiors. Though he likes most of the people he works with, he must protect large corporations like Evil Corp, which he deeply resents. Much of Elliot's anger is focused on E Corp, to the degree that whenever he hears or sees the name of the corporation's name he mentally translates it to "Evil Corp", which is the derogatory name he has assigned to it.
When he is not working, much of Elliot's time is devoted to grey-hat hacking. He stays up to date on forums and boards, and maintains contacts through the internet. He is skilled in information gathering and observation, and demonstrates skills in social engineering, which allow him to learn as much as possible about the people around him. He uses his skills to bring what he sees as justice to people who might otherwise escape the notice of law enforcement, as demonstrated by his confrontation with Ron, a prosperous coffee house owner who also runs a child-pornography website. He also uses his skills to help ordinary people who may have been wronged, such as when he hacked his therapist's boyfriend to protect her from his more violent tendencies
Elliot is an introverted, socially awkward person who holds in a lot of anger, mainly towards the society that he is unable to participate in. He suffers from anxiety, which makes it difficult for him to participate in social situations. Because of this anxiety, he is unable to bring himself to attend Angela's birthday party, much to her frustration. Despite this, he will at times try to overcome his fear. Elliot is rarely seen not wearing a black hoodie which may be his personal uniform for the world and a comfort blanket of sorts. It also allows him to blend in to the world, much like a featureless, black anonymous avatar. 
He confronts a coffee shop owner about the latter's illegal website in person in part to work on talking to people, but when he goes to the restaurant where Angela's birthday party is held and sees Angela with her boyfriend, he decides to leave. Additionally, he does not like to be touched.
Elliot receives mandated therapy to help him deal with his anxiety, as well as his emotional issues and anger management. Though he tells Krista, his therapist, that he is taking his medication, there are moments when he questions whether his perceptions are accurate. He self-medicates with morphine, using suboxone to help with any withdrawal he may experience, but also uses recreational drugs such as Ecstasy.
Although he has working relationships with some peers, his closest friend, Angela, is from childhood. Krista, his therapist, encourages him to connect with other people, but his anxiety generally prevents him from being comfortable in social situations. Despite this, he has a sexual relationship with Shayla, who eventually becomes his girlfriend. He is also able to connect with the fsociety group, and to interact with people related to his hacks.
Elliot's Diagnosis
Elliot's therapy sessions and his own voice-over provide insights into his diagnosis. Elliot acknowledges his own social anxiety disorder, and later, his extreme sadness, indicative of his clinical depression. Krista notes his delusions in one session, checking to be sure he has taken his medication. His actions, such as his hyper-vigilant awareness of those around him, suggest paranoia as well, a syndrome that frequently accompanies or causes delusions. Later, Elliot's mind identifies his own dissociative identity disorder, involving four different personalities created to protect the host.
Social anxiety disorder: intense fear of social situations. This may affect an individual's ability to function in one or more aspects of their lives. In Elliot's case, his job demands minimal social interaction, and allows him to work in a cubicle, reducing social contact, but he is unable to join large social activities, such as Angela's birthday. His anxiety lightens during the short period he is with Shayla, making it possible for him to attend the dinner at Gideon's loft.
Depression: Pervasive low mood, sadness, and/or loss of interest in or enjoyment of normal activities, often accompanied by low self-esteem. Depression can be treated by medication and therapy, such as with Elliot.
Paranoia: Thoughts influenced by fear or anxiety. Paranoia may accompany or trigger delusions.
Delusions: Delusions are strongly held systems of beliefs or interpretations of reality that differs from reality, despite evidence to counter them. Elliot's belief system includes the feeling he is being followed, and the need to rescue individuals from people he feels are hurting others, such as in the case of Krista's boyfriend or Ron, the coffee shop owner. Unlike hallucinations, where the individual sees what is not there, delusions are about how the individual interprets reality. Through much of the series, we see reality through Elliot's filter, and thereby his delusions. In “eps1.7_wh1ter0se.m4v”, the audience sees the reality that Elliot is interpreting for the first time.
Dissociative Identity Disorder: In Elliot's mind prison, Krista discusses Elliot's dissociative identity disorder with him. The first personality, the protector personality, was created the day Elliot jumped out the window. This personality was created to replace his father to protect him from intolerable situations - the person Elliot named as Mr. Robot. The second personality, the prosecutor, was Elliot's mother personality. She was created later in life, and blamed Elliot for the abuse and punished him. Not long after her came Elliot's younger self - he emerged to handle the abuse he couldn't tolerate. Thus, Elliot created his own family of sorts. Krista then reveals that there is a fourth personality - he tried to shelter Elliot by changing his past, and protect his future. This personality tried to take down all the evil that surrounded him in the real world, hence why fsociety was born. He loved him so much, he wanted to make the entire world better for him. This was the reason he hid the real Elliot in his mind prison - to try and turn his harsh reality into fantasy, to keep him safe until he was ready. Krista then talks about real-Krista and how she was never realised she wasn't talking to the real Elliot, only ever the fourth personality, the one created to carry Elliot's rage, the vigilante hacker that sought vengeance. He forgot that he was only just another personality - he was the mastermind